{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21900\viewh11360\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Lending Club Documentation:
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\
\ul Answers:\ulnone \
Part 1:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	\ul Categorical Results\'85\ulnone \
	* There are more than 2x as many 36 month loans as 60 month ones.\
	* The most frequent loan grades in descending order are B > C > A\
	* The vast majority of loans (in descending order) are Fully Paid > Current > Charged Off\
	* Loan volume has exponentially increased from 2007 - 2015,  and though, still increasing, is somewhat leveling off.\
	* There is not a significant difference in loan volume by month of origination.\
\
	\ul \ulc0 Numerical Results\'85\ulnone \
	* Loan and funded amounts have similar, unimodal, right skewed distributions with long right tails.\
		(Same Stats Minimum: $500, Maximum: $40,000 \'97 Nearly the same Mean: loan: $14,959.15 / funded: $14,951.84, Std: loan: $9,126.29 / funded: $9,124.39)\
\
	* Interest rate has a unimodal, skewed right distribution\
		(Minimum: 5.31%, Maximum: 30.99%, Mean: 13.07%, Std: 4.81%)\
\
	* Annual Income has two very large outliers and otherwise, a unimodal skewed right distribution\
		(Minimum: $600.00, Maximum: $269,950.00, Mean: $73,940.41, Std: $39,408.32)\
	\
	* DTI has a somewhat Normal distribution\
		(Minimum: 0 , Maximum: 0.4 , Mean: 0.18, Std: 0.08)\
\
	* Revolving Balance has a unimodal, skewed right distribution with the largest concentration around $5000.\
		(Minimum: $0.00, Maximum: $88,811.00, Mean: $14,810.26, Std: $13,012.17)\
\
	* Total Payment has a unimodal, skewed right distribution with the largest concentration at the lower end of the spectrum.\
		(Minimum: $0.00, Maximum: $63,296.88, Mean: $11,718.10, Std: $9,765.33)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Part 2:\
	Question 1: What percentage of loans has been fully paid?\
\
		85.9% of 36 month loans with at least 36 months of data were fully paid\
\
\
	Question 2: When bucketed by year of origination and grade, which cohort has the highest rate of defaults? Here you may\
		         assume that any loan which was not fully paid had \'93defaulted\'94.\
\
		Cohort \'97 Year: 2015 / Grade: G \'97 has the highest rate of defaults of 47.0%\
\
	\
	Question 3: When bucketed by year of origination and grade, what annualized rate of return have these loans generated on average?\
		         For simplicity, use the following approximation:\
		                Annualized rate of return = (total_pymnt / funded_amnt) ^ (1/3) - 1\
\
		Cohort \'97 Year: 2015 / Grade: G \'97 has an annualized rate of return of -1.63%\
\
			      (vs. Overall ARR without bucketing of 2.66%)\
\
Part 3:\
	Question 1: Was the model effective?\
	\
		The model was mostly ineffective at classifying loans. Although, the model was 85.0% accurate in classifying paid vs. unpaid loans, since\
		85.0% of the loans in the test set were Fully Paid, a similar degree of accuracy could have been obtained by guessing \'93Fully Paid\'94 across the board.\
		\
		However, the naive ARR of this blind investment strategy would have attained an ARR of 2.07%. Using the Logistic Regression model with a threshold\
		probability of 0.98, we obtain an ARR of 2.12% \'97 a slight, but noticeable increase over the naive investment strategy.\
		\
	\
	Question 2: Explain how I validated & describe how I measured the performance of the model?\
\
		I segmented the data into 3 buckets \'97 train, cross validation, and test. Because I used month and year of origination as input features, I tried to avoid\
		introducing temporal bias, by using the latest 40% worth of the data as the cross validation and test sets \'97 dividing it randomly and evenly between the two.\
\
		Iterating through multiple versions of the model including introducing new features such as total debt (i.e. DTI * annual income) and loan percentage of income\
		(i.e. loan_amount / annual_inc) as well as using one_hot values for the categorical variable \'93grade\'94, I identified the best combination of features, using the\
		accuracy values of the cross validation set.\
\
		Once, I found the best version of the model, I then calculated the ARR of various portfolios using this model. By using the predicted probably of a loan\'92s repayment\
		I identified the list of loans in which my model would have been willing to invest, and by finding the version of the model with the highest cross validation ARR,\
		I selected 0.98 as the threshold value for my Logistic Regresion\'92s investment strategy.\
\
\
\
#### Kaggle Website Data Description: (https://www.kaggle.com/wendykan/lending-club-loan-data)\
\
# Update on 2019-03-18 \'97 "Updating files until end of 2018"\
\
# Resulting Assumption \'97 This 2007-2018 data represents "present" data as of 11:59 PM on December 31, 2018.\
#                        Therefore, any loans originating after Dec. 2015 have less than\
#                        36 months of data and should be excluded in Pt. 2 & Pt. 3.\
\
\
# Original Description:\
\
# These files contain complete loan data for all loans issued through the 2007-2015,\
# including the current loan status (Current, Late, Fully Paid, etc.) and latest\
# payment information. The file containing loan data through the "present" contains\
# complete loan data for all loans issued through the previous completed calendar quarter.\
\
\
\ul Assumptions:\ulnone \
\
#################################################\
#### PART 1: Data Exploration and Evaluation ####\
#################################################\
#\
# Assumptions:\
# 1. Each row is a single unique loan (i.e. there are no duplicate rows for the same loan)\
# 2. Each loan is independent \'97 a default on one does not affect the likelihood of a default on another.\
#    (e.g. multiple loans do not belong to the same person since one of their defaults would increase the\
#    likelihood of a second default.)\
# 3. The loan amount & funded amount represent requested and paid amounts respectively.\
# 4. Column: loan_status \'97 "Does not meet the credit policy. Status:..." can be simplified to just the word(s) after "Status"\
# 5. According to Lending Club on 2007/12/09 \'97 https://blog.lendingclub.com/responsible-lending-better-returns/\
#    "Lending Club maintains very high standards to list a loan, with...a maximum DTI of 30% required."\
#    Thus, assuming that any DTI above 30% is invalid.\
# 6. Lending Club requires income verification \'97 https://help.lendingclub.com/hc/en-us/articles/214502877\
#    Assumption(s): Income is reported prior to origination. Loan recipients must have a non-zero income.\
#    Thus, loans with 0 annual_inc are simply missing data.\
# 7. Column: revol_bal is updated regularly (unlike annual_inc) and therefore cannot be used to verify DTI.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
###################################\
#### PART 2: Business Analysis ####\
###################################\
\
# Assumptions:\
# 1. (See Above) This 2007-2018 data represents "present" data as of 11:59 PM on December 31, 2018.\
#    Therefore, any loans originating after Dec. 2015 have less than 36 months of data\
#    and should be excluded in Pt. 2 & Pt. 3.\
# 2. Considering only 36 month loans indicates we are not considering a 36 month investment in a 60 month loan. i.e. Holding until maturity.\
#\
#\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\ul Steps Taken:\ulnone \
\
\ul General Steps:\ulnone \
1. Load Data\
2. Create numerical loan grade for logistic regression\
3. Separate string date into numerical month / year for pt. 2 & 3\
4. Clean up loan_status column by removing \'93Does not credit policy string\'94\
5. Create combined \'93lateness\'94 column to simplify creation of \'93y\'94 column in pt.3 (loan is defaulted simply becomes \'93lateness\'94 \uc0\u8805  1)\
\
\ul Begin Pt. 1:\ulnone \
\
6. Explore 0s & NULLs in data.\
7. Set annual income to NULL if annual_inc \uc0\u8804  0. (See Assumption 6.)\
8. Since DTI = Monthly Debt / Monthly Income, set DTI to NULL with NULL Income.\
9. By definition, DTI is a positive number. Set all negative DTIs to NULL\
\
10. Only 1,725 / 2,260,668 rows have NULL columns. Simply exclude from analysis.\
\
11. Intersperse viewing data plots & cleaning decisions.\
	- For data with huge outliers (Annual Income / Revolving Balance / DTI), exclude the top 1% of data\
	- For DTI, many entries seem to be written in percentages as whole numbers, therefore, for everything with a value \uc0\u8805  1, divide by 100\
		- (cont\'92d) Exclude any DTIs that remain that are above 0.4 (based on Assumption 5).\
	- \
\
12. Examine data plots. (Following descriptions are post-cleaning.)\
	\ul Categorical Results\'85\ulnone \
	* There are more than 2x as many 36 month loans as 60 month ones.\
	* The most frequent loan grades in descending order are B > C > A\
	* The vast majority of loans (in descending order) are Fully Paid > Current > Charged Off\
	* Loan volume has exponentially increased from 2007 - 2015,  and though, still increasing, is somewhat leveling off.\
	* There is not a significant difference in loan volume by month of origination.\
\
	\ul \ulc0 Numerical Results\'85\ulnone \
	* Loan and funded amounts have similar, unimodal, right skewed distributions with long right tails.\
		(Same Stats for Minimum: $500, Maximum: $40,000 \'97 Nearly the same for Mean: loan: $14,959.15 / funded: $14,951.84, Std: loan: $9,126.29 / funded: $9,124.39)\
	* Interest rate has a unimodal, skewed right distribution\
		(Minimum: 5.31%, Maximum: 30.99%, Mean: 13.07%, Std: 4.81%)\
	* Annual Income has two very large outliers and otherwise, a unimodal skewed right distribution\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		(Minimum: $600.00, Maximum: $269,950.00, Mean: $73,940.41, Std: $39,408.32)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	\
	* DTI has a somewhat Normal distribution\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		(Minimum: 0 , Maximum: 0.4 , Mean: 0.18, Std: 0.08)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
	* Revolving Balance has a unimodal, skewed right distribution with the largest concentration around $5000.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		(Minimum: $0.00, Maximum: $88,811.00, Mean: $14,810.26, Std: $13,012.17)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
	* Total Payment has a unimodal, skewed right distribution with the largest concentration at the lower end of the spectrum.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		(Minimum: $0.00, Maximum: $63,296.88, Mean: $11,718.10, Std: $9,765.33)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\ul Begin Pt.2:\ulnone \
\
13. Load only loans with term contains \'9236\'92.\
14. Exclude loans with less than 36 months of data (i.e. those that were originated after December, 2015). (See Pt. 2 Assumption 1)\
15. Answer #1:\
	85.9% of 36 month loans with at least 36 months of data were fully paid\
\
16. Answer #2:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Cohort \'97 Year: 2015 / Grade: G \'97 has the highest rate of defaults of 47.0%\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
17. Answer #3:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Cohort \'97 Year: 2015 / Grade: G \'97 has an annualized rate of return of -1.63%\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
}